>Zelin Xu<sup>1</sup>, Jie Ren<sup>2</sup>, Yupu Zhang<sup>1</sup>, Jose Maria Gonzalez Ondina<sup>3</sup>, Maitane Olabarrieta<sup>3</sup>, Tingsong Xiao<sup>1</sup>, Wenchong He<sup>1</sup>, Zibo Liu<sup>1</sup>, Shigang Chen<sup>1</sup>, Kaleb Smith<sup>4</sup>, Zhe Jiang<sup>1</sup> <br>
>*<sup>1</sup>Department of Computer & Information Science & Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA<br>
><sup>2</sup>Department of Computer Science, College of William & Mary, Williamsburg, VA, USA<br>
><sup>3</sup>Department of Civil & Coastal Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA<br>
><sup>4</sup>NVIDIA, Santa Clara, CA, USA*

[[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.14952)]

## Abstract
Nearly 900 million people live in low-lying coastal zones around the world and bear the brunt of impacts from more frequent and severe hurricanes and storm surges. Oceanographers simulate ocean current circulation along the coasts to develop early warning systems that save lives and prevent loss and damage to property from coastal hazards.  Traditionally, such simulations are conducted using coastal ocean circulation models such as the Regional Ocean Modeling System (ROMS), which usually runs on an HPC cluster with multiple CPU cores. However, the process is time-consuming and energy expensive. While coarse-grained ROMS simulations offer faster alternatives, they sacrifice detail and accuracy, particularly in complex coastal environments. Recent advances in deep learning and GPU architecture have enabled the development of faster AI (neural network) surrogates. This paper introduces an AI surrogate based on a 4D Swin Transformer to simulate coastal tidal wave propagation in an estuary for both hindcast and forecast (up to 12 days). Our approach not only accelerates simulations but also incorporates a physics-based constraint to detect and correct inaccurate results, ensuring reliability while minimizing manual intervention. We develop a fully GPU-accelerated workflow, optimizing the model training and inference pipeline on NVIDIA DGX-2 A100 GPUs. Our experiments demonstrate that our AI surrogate reduces the time cost of 12-day forecasting of traditional ROMS simulations from 9,908 seconds (on 512 CPU cores)  to 22 seconds (on one A100 GPU), achieving over 450 $\times$ speedup while maintaining high-quality simulation results. This work contributes to oceanographic modeling by offering a fast, accurate, and physically consistent alternative to traditional simulation models, particularly for real-time forecasting in rapid disaster response.
